I did the math

I did the math.
But I wish I hadn’t.
It was right after Hurricane Sandy.
Over a week-long binge I read everything I could find.
I work downtown, you see.
And they’d lost power, but uptown I still had it.
So I had this string of days.
It was a time out of Time: the storm had stopped the world, but I was still moving.
The city was wrecked.
Well, a few parts of it — The Rockaways, Red Hook, Staten Island.
The rest of us were a bit stunned, but fine.
The Exchange was down; the Jersey guys who normally run the gym couldn’t make it into the city.
My normal routine was a mess.
I went for a run in the Park, and camped out at Starbucks with my laptop and just started reading everything I could find — about Sandy, extreme weather, climate change; the deniers, the doomsayers and everyone in between.
One link led to another, which led to another.
I couldn’t stop; I was in a kind of trance, doing the math as I went.

2°C: the baseline maximum increase in aggregate global temperature that the planet can handle without tipping into total catastrophe.
Everyone — the UN, the US, China — everyone but the most fringe deniers — agreed on that.
565 gigatons: the maximum additional CO2 we can safely emit and still stay under the 2°C limit.
2,795 gigatons: the total amount of carbon in the reserves — and on the books — of the world’s fossil fuel companies.
Five times the safe amount.
Ergo 80% can’t be burned.
Choice: extinction or a $28 trillion write-down.

I’m no scientist, but I am a numbers guy.
A stock analyst.
I’ve got a head for numbers, and numbers for me are realities you base decisions on.
But those numbers hurt my head.
They hurt my everything.
‘I want the truth!’
shouts Kaffee.
‘You can’t handle the truth!’
Jessup spits back.
All that week, chest clenched, I played host to that spittle-flying scene from A Few Good Men, each one shouting each other down, till it felt like no-one was left standing.

The following Tuesday the power came back on, and I was at my desk early the next morning.
The subway station downtown was pretty trashed — and would be for months to come — but the office was quickly back to normal.
Normal?
Nothing felt normal anymore.
Don’t get me wrong: I’m not picking up a protest sign, and I’m not signing any of those dumb petitions.
Far from it.
But that McKibben guy is right: all that carbon simply can’t come out of the ground, and those Oil, Gas and Coal stocks aren’t worth what the market says they are.
Sure, in the short-term they might be an OK bet, but in the medium and long-term, they’re just a bad portfolio waiting to happen.
The industry, however, hadn’t caught up to this yet.

At the first department meeting after Sandy I circulated a memo where I laid it all out, along with some revised criteria to take the ‘carbon bubble’ into account.
A lot of puzzled looks at that meeting.
My boss took me aside later that day and basically told me to cut the crap.
I never brought it up again at work, but later that month I called my broker and told him to dump every last fossil-fuel stock from my own holdings.
Wall Street could play the fool with other people’s money, but I wasn’t going to do it with mine.

It’s been a couple years now since Sandy.
The subway is repaired, grand plans for coastal berms are underway.
The city is mostly back on track; but I can only pretend to be.
I try not to think about it too much, but some days it catches up with me.
I’ll be on the treadmill at the gym, my mind chugging along with the iPod and the fake hill I’m going up and down.
In a silence between tracks, a truck backfires on the street below, starting a chain of thoughts: truck... exhaust pipe... 400+ ppm atmospheric carbon... and in a cascade of associations, this horror comes over me.
A horror that’s by now all too familiar.
I imagine the slow plink!
plink!
of Greenland’s glaciers melting - there’s been a 49% recession of Arctic ice since 1979!!
I can almost smell the diesel fumes of Amazon earthmovers ripping out the lungs of the world.
How can 78 million acres of Brazilian rainforest be lost every year??
And because I’m a numbers guy, I follow in my mind’s eye the asymptotic curve of ocean acidification as it creeps along the graph paper, bending relentlessly upwards.

I know where all this is heading if we do nothing — and almost nothing is what we seem to be doing.
What I don’t know is where to go with this dreadful feeling.
It feels like I’ve been told a terrible secret.
A secret that could poison the happy days of everyone I know.
A secret - sshhhhh!!! - 2; 565; 2795 - no-one wants to hear that, least of all me.
