The apocalypse is my gravy train

I’m not going to bullshit you — or myself: climate change is a natural and social disaster of unprecedented proportions and it’s heading our way.

I’m an engineer.
I oversee large construction projects.
I can be part of the solution here and, frankly, make some money along the way.
I’ve got to put food on the table like everyone else, and this isn’t war profiteering we’re talking about.
Our firm doesn’t blow stuff up, we build things.
And this is going to be the biggest construction boom in history.
Bigger than the Marshall Plan.
Bigger than the New York skyscrapers, Eisenhower’s Federal Highway System, and the Beijing Olympics all rolled into one.

We’re talking large-scale terraforming here.
We’re talking coastal berms, seawalls, you name it, whatever it takes to keep our cities safe.
No offense, but it won’t be about the folks in New Orleans’ Third Ward this time.
We’re looking at Manhattan, Miami’s Gold Coast and Boston’s Financial District, for starters.
Now that’s some property there.
I’m guessing the government is going to come up with the cash needed to do the job right this time, and our firm is well positioned to help.
We operate on a long-term time horizon, and the sooner we can get started the better.

Some folks still don’t realise this, but you always have to win the battle twice: once over the problem, and again around the solution.
All you deniers — and all you enviros trying to prove them wrong — go on and have your silly votes in the Senate.
Keep on arguing about the problem.
That’s all just a sideshow at this point, because us big boys have already moved on to the solution.
That’s where the big money is, and we sure don’t want the kind of solution they’re rolling forward in Germany or Boulder, CO, with municipally-owned renewables and every farmer with their own wind turbine.
We’re running out of time.
This is a big crisis, and we need big solutions.
On the energy production side: clean coal, concentrated solar thermal, massive wind farms, biofuels, and the next-generation nuclear — they’re zero-carbon and we won’t build them on top of an earthquake fault line this time.
On the remediation side: carbon-sequestration sinks, heat-shielded residential, you name it, we’re just getting going.

I’m planning for my firm’s — and my family’s — future.
I’m honoured to bring my skills and my company’s global expertise to the task.
If we succeed, what greater legacy could I possibly ask for than having helped save the planet?
If we fail, well, gated communities are going to be in high demand, and we build those too.
