Bring it on!

We are living in sin, in a kind of hell, in what the Buddhists and Hindus call Maya.
We recognise fewer than ten plants, but over 1,000 corporate logos.
We’re so lost in the supermarket, kids keep on killing each other over sneakers.
The corporations have sweet-talked the FDA into letting them put so many chemicals in our food and air that we don’t even know what things are supposed to taste or smell like anymore.
A carbon disaster will free us.
A disembowelling of industrial civilisation is what we need to bring us back to our true selves.

Everyone’s all gaga for green capitalism, but that’s just a kinder, gentler way to destroy the planet.
You want a ‘green roof’?
Just wait for it to cave in.
Let the seed pods land in the cracks in the concrete, they’ll sprout, and take it all back.
That’s the only kind of green roof I want.
When Nature finds its own rhythms again, we can, too.
The only way forward is backwards.
The only way forward is collapse.

Right now, I’m living in a squat and dumpster-diving my food.
Any SUV that parks in the neighbourhood, we let the air out of its tyres.
Small-fry stuff for sure, but we’re just biding our time.
After the collapse, we’ll make campfires in abandoned office buildings, smashing up the cubicles for kindling.
We’ll hunt deer with bow and arrow through the hollow, echoing ruins of downtown.
After the collapse, the rest of you had better know how to do these things too.

Most people find this pretty far-fetched, but you’ll all see.
Every civilisation before us has collapsed, and we’re far more precarious and out of kilter than they were.
We’re literally consuming ourselves into oblivion; it’s only a matter of time before the system implodes from its own exhaustion, fury and hollowness.
My job?
To help push things along.

There was a meeting last night in the basement.
We all took the batteries out of our phones so they couldn’t hear us.
All kinds of things were floated: breaking animals out of the zoos, hacking the genetic trials at the university, even blowing up the dam up north.
We’ll see.

No matter what, it ain’t gonna be pretty.
Millions, maybe billions, will die.
I can’t say I’m not anxious about it, I just know the sooner it happens, the better — for us and the planet.
So: Bring. It. On.

