If it gets too bad, God will intervene.

Sure the climate is changing.
It’s always changed and always will.
But that is the work of God and Nature.
Man can’t change the climate.
Hurricane Katrina.
Snowpocalypse.
The drought in California.
Spiraling temperatures.
People say these are signs of the End Times.
Could be, I don't know.
In some mysterious fashion that we cannot understand, it’s all part of God’s plan for us.
We can’t know His mind, of course, but I sincerely believe that if things get too bad, he will step in.
He’s done it before Genesis, The Flood, Parting the Red Sea and if He needs to, if He chooses to, He will do it again.

I dated a girl in college.
Briefly.
A sorority girl.
Nice enough, but — how can I say this?
 she had no place to put her soul.
She was groundless.
To her it was all about numbers, and molecules, and “oh what a piece of work is man.” For her, the Bible was just another book.
Not for me.
I grew up with the Bible.
It explains the whole world to me.
It’s my Lord, my home, my everything; more true to me than life itself.
But I’m no fool: I also believe in science.
I ride in airplanes, and obviously trust that the science and engineering that built the plane will keep me up in the air.
I had triple bypass surgery several years ago; I trusted the science my doctors were trained on.
Likewise, I trust the scientific instruments that have been recording the rise in temperature over the last 30 years.
But the Earth and everything in the Universe is God’s Creation.
Unless it is His will, God will never let it come to ruin.
If things get too bad, God will intervene.
God will make it right.

Some things change in this world, and some things are Eternal, and I know on which side of that line my loyalties lie.
So, I don’t fret about the fate of the earth in any ultimate sense.
No need to despair.
No need to futz up our whole economy with a carbon tax.
God can take the acid out of the ocean.
God can take the carbon out of the air.
God can put the glaciers back together.
He can.
If He wants to.
Does He? I don’t know.
Maybe these are the End Times.
Maybe this is how it all ends.
Either way, God’s got it covered.
This is His green earth, and I am happy to be here for as long as He sees fit.

