We can get through this together.

This is going to sound corny, but I like people.
And I like being, “in community,” as the kids say.
Which is lucky for me, because if anything’s going to save us from the ugliness headed our way, it’s community.
I get why “preppers” are prepping.
Minus the guns and booby-traps, I’m kind of one myself.
But the way I see it: we’re way stronger if we work together.
My slogan: “Preppers, unite!
We have nothing to lose but our lonely, rugged-individualist, go-it-alone bunkers.”

You see, I’m a “hopeful and helpful” person.
I just am.
And, turns out, I’m far from the only one.
Who knew, but when you put your truth out there, you find your tribe.
At that first meeting  no more than a pot-luck, really  it was such a relief to come out of the closet about it all.
To just say, I think “some kind of Collapse is coming.”
And to have the other folks there nod, and go, Yeah, me too.
There was a kind of silence in the room, then.
Everyone was looking at each other, and our eyes were saying, So, what are we going to do?
And that’s quite a question.
Because the government is not going to protect us.
The corporations are certainly not going to protect us.
We’ve got to do it for ourselves.
We have to be ready as the shit hits the fan, and it’s already starting to.

The good news: There’s a power in “just doing stuff.”
And, here in Greenville, we’re doing lots of great stuff.
After that first meeting, we got to work.
We set up a tool-lending library, a solar cooperative, a community-supported agriculture association.
We’re learning about permaculture, wilderness medicine, living systems.
A lot of people talk about “resilient communities,” but we’re actually trying to build one.

And here’s the thing: it’s not just necessary, it’s been kind of an adventure.
I’m learning new things, and I feel myself changing in good ways.
We love our little town, and we’re trying to do right by it.
And maybe the best part?
I’ve found my tribe.
These people are fun, resourceful and skillful; the kind of people you want to be around in tough times.
There’s an engineer, a few farmers, a retired lawyer  pretty handy for sorting out arrangements for limited-equity coops and such  a guy on disability, even a poet.
Yes, a poet, but she’s also a mean bicycle mechanic.
Surprisingly, maybe, we’ve got both Dems and Repubs  not to mention two or three Greens, and even a Libertarian  in our circle.
It seems that when you start doing stuff at the local level that really matters to folks, the politics fall away a bit.
The local Unitarian church is pitching in, and two of the city managers are starting to take notice.
We’ve jump-started a conversation about re-municipalizing our local utility, and we’re even lobbying the State Capitol to nix those ridiculous restrictions on solar.

I say: Enough with the isolation and despair.
Enough with feeling overwhelmed.
Enough with expecting someone else to take care of it.
We need to push through all that, and get busy.
Find your tribe, start a group.
An affinity group, resilience circle, prayer group, gardening club  almost any group will do to start.
Governments are moving too slowtoo much politics, too much division there.
And individuals can’t do much on their own.
At the community level, however, we have room to move.
And it feels really good to move.

