Defend this ground

I grew up here: Iron Mountain, Michigan, in the Upper Peninsula. 
Twenty street lights, three churches.
I sang in the choir at Her Lady of Redemption until I was 14.
Back then the town was 10,000-strong, mostly Germans and Swedes, along with some Italians, my folks included.
Now, we’re down to barely 7,500.
The mining and timber companies ravaged the place, like they did the whole region.
Took everything, left a few broken backs, and scars all over the land.
My cousins worked in the mines.
My step-dad was a cop.
When he died I left the state.
Came back decades later to take care of my mom.
She’d gone blind those last years, and had no-one else.
By the end, the place had become home again, and I’ve stayed on.

I have my dog, my garden, and pipes to patch after the winter.
I’ve got things to take care of.
I still battle the same old demons — the depression comes and goes — but I’ve developed some new disciplines: canning, pressing flowers, painting.
I’m seventy now, I’m slow.
I’ve got arthritis.
My left leg is effectively lame.
But I work on the things I can.

What keeps me going is this patch of ground, this sacred bit of Earth.
Lake Superior, that God, is the heart and lungs of the continent.
The Devil is the mining companies and the real estate developers.
I don’t have a lot of strength left, but I’m still putting up a fight where I can.
I choose my battles carefully.
I look for smart places to intervene, no matter how small.
I find things I can do to keep these lungs breathing.

There’s a development they’ve been trying to put in ten miles west of here.
Summer home resort for down-staters: golf course, the works.
We know what that means: dozers, clear cutting, chemical run-off, you name it.
Our little group — two students, a retired lawyer, me — has had ’em gummed up in court for two years now.
And that pipeline coming down from Canada — we pulled up the surveyor stakes from a three-mile stretch last spring.
They know it was us, but can’t prove it.
They stormed into the county commissioner’s office but he just shrugged.
That was fun to watch.

I know what we’re doing is just a sideshow of a sideshow of a sideshow — small rearguard actions in a centuries-long war.
But you fight where you stand. 
You do what you can.
You defend your little patch of ground.
I’m not going anywhere.
