What will the future think of me?

I took Jean and my two boys to Normandy last year.
We went to the sprawling graveyards at Colleville-sur-Mer, just above Omaha beach.
You’ve seen the photographs, but it’s quite different to actually be there.
White crosses stretched in ordered rows literally for a mile.
We walked and walked.
It was beyond sobering.

It took a while, but we finally found him. 
James Davies, 1922—1944.
My great uncle.
Third Infantry.
Killed in action around Bayonne three weeks after the invasion, just before the breakout across France.
We’d brought blue ribbons, and each of us placed one on the grave.
My youngest first.
Then Jean and I.
Then my eldest.
I stood there on the grass and gazed down at this man my dad had named me after.
I envied him his place of honour, and — at least from where I stood — the moral clarity of his short life and death.
This James Davies came of age at a heroic time.
He’d stepped up, and made the ultimate sacrifice.
The country still honours him.
His family still remembers him.
It doesn’t say ‘Hero’ beside his name, but it might as well.

One day they’ll lay me down.
​James Davies, 1962—2050-ish.
Probably in the city plot, alongside Jean, back in Akron.
Will my as-yet-unborn grandkids and grandnephews come visit me?
Maybe.
Though not with blue ribbons, I suppose.
What will the future say about me?
​"He lived a full life, he was a good father, but he was asleep at the switch when we needed him most."

We live in an age of soft comforts and distractions, sprinkled with some vague doom-dust.
No-one would call this a heroic time, but maybe it never feels that way when you’re actually living it — it’s always just a slosh of headlines and noise. And yet we are a critical link in the chain of generations.
Because before I die, if we don’t get 90% of the global economy off carbon, we’re toast.
We don’t need to be another Greatest Generation, we just need to NOT be the Worst Generation, the generation that blew it for all the generations to come.

Jean and the kids were looking the other way, so I don’t think they saw me — and this is going to sound corny to most of you — but as I was standing there, I gave a tiny salute to this fallen young man who bore my same name, and I swore to him I’d do my part.
For starters, when I get back home, I swore to him I’d finally sign that contract and install rooftop solar on the house.
And I’d dig out that email from my old fraternity brother — maybe if enough of us make a fuss, we can get Ohio State to divest its fossil fuel holdings.
In the scheme of things, none of this felt particularly heroic, but I realised: I don’t need to be a hero.
I just need to try to do enough decent things so the future won’t think I’m a dick.
